how would you define AI engineer or AI
engineering yeah so before when you
wanted to build a maching applications
you need to build the own models so that
means that you need your own data and
you need expertise how to train the
babysit a model however nowadays if you
want to build application leveraging
machine link or AI you can just like
send a direct API call and access to
this like wonderful cability so that's
like really really lowers the entry
barrier to people like you don't need
data anymore you don't need a fancy AI
degree anymore it's a shift of for
from less machine learning and more
engineering and more product chip huan
is a computer scientist and writer and
author of the book AI engineering this
book is currently the most R title on
the O'Reilly platform previously chip
was a researcher at Netflix a core
developer of Nemo nvidia's gen framework
EML engineer snarl Ai and founded and
sold an AI stup called claya
AI she taught machine Learning System
design at Stamford and her current book
is a second one on ML and AI engineering
it's safe to say she's one of the most
read ml engineering and AI engineering
experts in the world in our conversation
today we cover what is AI engineering
and why does it feel a lot more full
stack than ml engineering did what are
typical steps to build an AI application
from choosing a model through using rag
all the way to find tuning what are
practical ways for software Engineers to
get started building AI applications and
a lot more on this very timely topic if
you enjoyed the show please subscribe to
the podcast on any platform and on
YouTube thank you this greatly helped
helps the show get to even more
listeners and viewers chip welcome to
the podcast hey hi I'm chip I'm very
excited to be here uh so I've been like
following your sub for a while so it's
like really uh I was really looking
forward for the chat to the chat so
first of all I really want to
congratulate you on this book I've
started to read the book so I I've not
read the whole thing I have started with
some chapters and I went deeper in
others and what I found is when I looked
at a table of contents I was like well
you know this this looks okay like in
terms of it'll span bra sense because
it's it goes from how do you understand
Foundation models how do you evaluate
them uh what about what is prompt
engineering and you go into things like
fine-tune rack fine-tuning data set
engineering but then on each of those
sections it just starts to get like you
know initially there's an introduction
but it it starts to then go deeper so
for example for evaluation methology
like here I'm just looking at a table of
contents but I started to read this like
well how it's we know it's important to
evaluate AI models we know it's harder
to do
but then you go into things like AI as a
judge or ranking models with comparative
evaluation and challenges of it and then
it goes that's where some some parts uh
in my sense is that I had to slow down I
had to like look things up so it does go
really deep into a lot of these sections
which I I found pretty refreshing that
it's got a mix of breath but it also
goes deep so this is definitely not a
fast fast read for for me but it's it's
one of those things where I'm just going
to keep coming back to it thank you it
it was not a fast ride either it took
quite a while and a lot of of references
I think I also published like so I think
in the book I cited about like over a
thousand references um so like uh I
should read even more like uh papers uh
I going into a lot of good bases I have
a tracking of like a thousands um like
repos like at least like now 800 stars
now on get up Stars uh so I went to a
lot of those code bases um and a lot of
blog post uh other books from the 80s
from the 70 90 you understand a so I
also like publishes like um at list
about like approximate 100 links
reference links I found like really
really useful for me in the process of
writing the book so if you just want to
like look at those references on their
own like it's on my
GitHub yeah and I I was surprised with
some of the really original research
like it's not just like oh here's I I
wrote about these papers or here was
what I read but as you mentioned the
Thousand repos you actually have a
paragraph or a section about about how
many how did GitHub repositories change
over time the ones that were about
infrastructure AI application Level um
other things and you actually have more
than 900 ripples mapped out I never saw
anything like that and clearly that was
you you know like kind of slicing and
dicing and doing your own kind of
research yeah I feel like I I I have
this thing like I I do a lot of manual
labor I do think I get a lot of value
out of doing things in nonoptimal I feel
like a lot more focus on like yeah what
is the quickest way to do it what is the
fastest way to do it but sometime if
you're willing to put into effort into
things that like a lot of people don't
are not willing to I feel like you can
get some kind inside that other people
like don't get this episode was brought
to you by swarma the inuring
intelligence platform for modern
software organizations swarma gives
everyone in your organization the
visibility and tools they need to get
better at getting better enging leaders
use swarma to balance the investment
between different types of work stay on
top of cross team initiatives and
automate the creation of cost
capitalization report engering managers
and team leads get access to a powerful
combination of research back inuring
metrics and developer experienc surveys
to identify and eliminate processed
bottlenecks software Engineers speed up
their daily workflows of swarming as
two-way slack notifications working
agreements and team Focus insights you
can learn more about how some of the
world's best software organizations
including mirro Docker and web flow use
swarm to bit better software faster at
swarm mia.com pragmatic
that is s SW rmia
a.com pragmatic this episode is brought
to you by graphite the developer
productivity platform that helps
developers create review and merge
smaller code changes stay unblocked and
ship
faster code review is a huge time sync
for engering teams most developers spend
about a day per week or more reviewing
code or blocked waiting for a review it
doesn't have to be this way graphite
brings stack P requests the workflow at
the heart of the best in class in
internal code review tools at companies
like meta and Google to every software
company on
GitHub graphite also leverages High
signal codebase aware AI to give deers
immediate actionable feedback on their
PLL requests allowing teams to cut down
on review Cycles tens of thousands of
developers at top companies like Asana
ramp tecton and versell rely on graphite
every day start sacking with graphite
today for free and reduce your time to
merge from days to hours get started at
gt. pragmatic that is g for graphite t
for technology. de pragmatic so one
thing that is a little interesting about
this book it is about AI engineering and
this field moves so quickly you know
like just just in a week we've now had a
new model come out for example deepsea
that that people are talking about in a
few weeks how did you write this book
how were you able to write a book about
such a fast moving industry so B the
time it's released which was clearly a
few months after you finish it it will
still be
relevant that is a great question uh so
so when I started writing the book I was
thinking the same I was like it's not
the right time to write it because like
there's so many things that still
changing but then I I I start like um
but like when when CH really came out
like like a lot of people I had this
existential crisis I was in a group chat
and everyone just like oh no what does
it mean for us like engineer I feel like
there are two things that I usually
identify with like one is being an
engineer and others being a writer and
guess what you use cases that AI are
really good at like writing code and
writing right so so I was like Oh shoot
what does it mean uh so so um so I start
like interview a lot of people I start
like reading so much and I I talk to
like a Tong of people um and I started
making a lot of note and as a process
what I realized is that um why a lot of
those things seem new uh a lot of the
fundamentals like have like been there
for a while so so uh so so for example
like language modeling is not a new task
like um CLA Shannon like introduced that
back in the 1950s Al all like as a time
we talk about rack right like rack is
actually not not NE um is um it's based
on retrieval argumented generation right
yeah and retrieval is like a very old
technology like it's powering like it's
already powering a lot of like use cases
as the internet um like uh search or
recommended systems and VAR databases
have been around for a while and V the
search is a very like have so many cool
algorithms already um so so I thought
okay first I lot of things that are new
um and and the second is that like um I
try to focus on like when I when I I try
to focus on like uh asking the question
like okay if this uh so sometime it was
like oh there's a problem with this
there a Sol solution to this problem and
I asked a question of um whether this is
a due to a fundamental limitations of AI
or is it just due to the temporary
capabilities of AI and I try to see like
okay if it's due to something like um of
the recent U current capabilities how
fast is that capability changing right
right so for example in the early days
uh a lot of people have Shar a lot of
like um uh prom tips like for example
you can you try priz models right like
hey say like if you answer this
correctly I'm going to give you like
$200 and or like we talk about promt
robustness like how how robust is a
model to to to like prompt put totient
and then I was um reading about it and I
felt it's like actually models is
getting more and more robust to Pro
proms for example like we saw of like uh
from the justb the gbd 3.5 uh compared
to gbd3 it's already like so much more
robust like that mean there a small
changes to prompt actually reduce to a
lot less variations in in in model
performance so like this kind of thing I
felt like it's probably not going to
like stick around like so so kind tips
are not going to be
very so already when like as people were
still like this was at the height of
people are saying there might be a job
as a prompt engineer so you already saw
this is like trending down do I
understand it correctly um so so yeah so
so I do think just like just try uh so
so writing I think it's like a score is
like uh making a bet like when you write
a topic you're trying to bet on whether
it's going to stay relevant in the
future um so so I think it's the people
have been trying to like uh looking at
like progress and trying to like seeing
what is going to be in like one or two
years from now on so for another example
is like uh context length so other point
was like okay we want long context
length but then I kept seeing people
going really really fast right from like
what like 8,000 uh 8,000 context L to
like uh 128 like in a few month it's
like super super fast so it was like
okay maybe a question is like less about
like context length but like context
efficiency because it's like can can a
model use a context efficiency like
really really well um so so like there
are certain um so so like those are like
the best and I do think that um there's
certain changes during the process of
writing the books that made me feel more
confident in in in the best I made all
like another things uh like uh
multimodality U I do think this like
when I wrote about multimodel uh back in
2023 uh people told me it's like you're
too early everyone was still working on
language now we we're not there yet uh
but it was just like yeah it's just like
inevitable right like I think like we we
learn how to go with with language but
like I I do want to do a lot of stuff uh
with more than just language um and I
think it's just like and nowaday just
everywhere like almost old models now
like M mod so the the title of the book
is AI engineering and we also now have
this term of AI engineer it's spreading
like
wildfire what how how would you define
AI engineer or AI engineering because I
feel it's a little bit of a Lotus term
these days it is I feel like a lot of
terms nowadays are loaded like you're
not allow to Asian anymore you're not
allow to use like a lot of things
anymore um so um when I was I was I like
I was agonizing over the title for the
book uh because people was like um first
I I know that we need a different term
for Machining engineering and the reason
is that um why why um when when with
Foundation models there are a lot of
fundamentals or like systematic
approaches are still the same at machine
engineering there are a lot of new
things uh so for example one thing is
that um before when you wanted to build
a machining application you had to build
model clear you're comparing it with
machine learning right so like what
machine learning Engineers did versus
what AI Engineers are doing yeah so so
yes just trying to explain uh why we
need a different term for machine
learning engineer to describe what we
are doing today uh so um yeah so before
when you wanted to build a maching
applications you need to build the own
models so that means that you need your
own data and you need like expertise in
like how to train a babysit model
however nowadays if you want to build
like an application leveraging machine
learning or AI you can just like send it
direct API calls and access to this like
wonderful cability so that's like really
really lower the entry barrier to people
like you don't need data anymore you
don't need like a fancy AI degree um
anymore uh a second thing is that like
uh before right like um you need
distributions because you you you deploy
application machine application as part
of exting applications so for example if
you build a recommended system you need
like an e-commerce website so that you
can have like recommend or like like
some some kind of website right like so
it's deploy as part is application or
for detection is part of like maybe
banking application like some some kind
of like payment app um but however now
you can just like put it out as a stand
aone applications right you you don't
need an existing distribution Channel
but but like having a dist dist uh
distribution channel is like really
really useful um so so so I think that
um um another very big thing is that um
it's a shift of for Mar from like less
machine learning and more engineering
and more product so so before right like
you start from if good Machining
engineer you start from data you have to
gather data you maybe have like human
annotations and then you you train a
model and now once the model is good you
deploy that into the your product but
nowaday like you actually start with
with a demo right I have a cool idea
okay let's just try it out and see if it
works so so you start with a product and
after you say Okay s like it works
pretty well I want to make it like
better right so so they started
Gathering more data maybe a with like as
more of like prom examples or or like in
very very rare case I I don't recommend
most people do it in the early days it's
like fire tuning um but but it's very
rare but basically you start getting
more data Maybe for evaluation extremely
important like having good evaluation
become even way way more important with
a engineering uh so okay so you got data
and then after that it was like maybe
you been like sending a lot of API call
like open and anthropic like Google and
we like okay now it's too expensive now
I need to like devop my own model so you
start like hosting the own model using
some open source alternative or like
five2 in the model so so yes so so like
before machine engineer right you go
from a data model to product and now
with engineering It Go from product to
data and to model so so it like place a
lot more focus on uh on product and data
which would be compartive Advantage when
everyone shares the kind similar Bas
like AI capabilities so I do think that
say need a different term just separated
from Machining engineer and I didn't
know like what terms you use and then I
I was like thought okay let's just ask
the people so I surveyed like a bunch of
people I thought was doing what uh this
building applications on on top F models
and almost I was like a engineering and
I was like okay if that's okay just
let's go with engineering so do I
understand correctly that you know the
biggest difference is that machine
learning Engineers did a lot more kind
of groundwork getting the data and build
the model whereas AI engineering you
have a lot of that at least initially
you can start either as apis or
something so there's more of of
engineering you kind of hack things
together you put it together and then
over time as Things become more serious
or your product is bigger you do a lot
more of the you might build your
own model or you might host it you might
one day even build your own model if if
it's there but it's it's just a lot
later so like a lot of ml engineering
comes down the path if it's big enough
if it works Etc whereas with theing it
was the other way you have to put in all
this effort and then see if it even
works um so uh first I feel like uh
every companies might have different
definition of the role I think it's like
um even the same company right like
people get the same title same room can
do very different things so so so it's
it's not very never like a clear-cut
definitions second things is that um I
don't think the question is like maching
or engineering um in the vast majority
of uh JF AI system I have seen they are
very strong traditional machine learning
or classifier uh component so like
imagine you building a a customer
support um chatbot which is like I
whenever I ask at a conference I see
like a lot of people raise their hand if
feel very very classic uh gen
applications um and so so like yes so
you get a request from a a customer and
maybe like you have like several
different potential solution for it
right like maybe if it's an easy query
you might send it to a cheap model or if
it's like a harder query it might send
it to more expensive model but it Mak
something that's very sensitive like hey
why did you charge me twice for the bill
last month right then you might want to
send it to human operator so you might
have this on like a router or like an
intend classifier I like to choose what
you send to which is like a um a
traditional classical machine learning
model that you can build or like after
after you get a response from an AI
model uh you might think it's like okay
does this contain like pi
uh so so you don't because you don't
want to send back to users like uh
responses contain like private
informations so that like Pi detections
can be or like toxic toxicity detections
can be a uh a classifier um or in the r
system nowadays like we talk about like
how a lot of it using uh retrieval like
retrieval systems which are also like I
think it's like in the ram of like
classifi like classical machine learning
that you can build yourself so what are
the most common techniques used when
building AI applications things that you
know a software engineer who's going
into building AI applications I should
know about and later I can go deeper
into um so so so so assumption here that
you have you have like Tred a lot of
solutions and now you try jvi and you
think this ji is is a solution for you
and it thinks like what is the first
like what what should I progress from
there right is that correct yeah yeah
it's just like what are some common
approaches you know like I think things
like rag fine tune
or or other things that are just good to
know about I should probably learn more
about those topics yeah so so I think
like um those those techniques are are
useful um and they I was usually
recommend some development like not
recommend but like a common pattern have
seen is a certain developmental par path
so initially the first thing it would
say is like trying to understand like
what means a good respon what what a
good response is and what a bad response
is uh so like what you want is a mod
Jared uh and it's not it's not always
always intutive right so for example
like LinkedIn has a very great example
so they built a candidate like job fit
assessments for candidates and they
found out that
like a majority of their time spending
just to understand like what candidates
needed from the model so initially they
focus on correct but then they realize
it's like candidates I found it not
helpful like say say like if you if a c
ask the model like am I good fit for
this job and the AI resp with your
terrible fit then the was like okay what
am I doing this information you know so
so you need to like try to understand
like okay here is um they want they want
more like understanding what what what
are the gaps and how they can fill the
gaps or like get suggestion for other
rules that are better fit for them right
now so like have this like a pictures
like good understanding and then build a
guideline like okay given this respon
answer like this like be helpful show
them like the gaps uh like show them the
RO like very clear guideline for the
model like in the prompt so so you try
those prompts and then you see you look
at the output and then maybe you can try
to add more examples um and then just
like go through like um get get really
good response and try to evaluate U
maybe like have a create a set of uh of
queries and like exper responses using
both automate automated metrics like as
a judge and also like human evaluations
to measure the progress uh so okay so
you have done prompts
we have like added more examples just
prompt and maybe you will like start
like make it more complex so you you may
use like um you you can give some the
model more context so they can answer
better questions right so so maybe when
a users ask a questions you can like
have the model P out like on the
documents or on the job listings related
to this question or information about
the company like get a candidate resume
right so so you build a system like
reach like uh you augment the context
with um with with the document so so
that's a rack pattern so so I do think
like rack is a very very powerful
pattern it's it's nothing really really
fancy um um and so interesting about
rack is that a lot of people equate rack
with v search right like when I see a
lot of people like oh I want to use rack
and he is like what ver database I
should use oh like people jump straight
to Vector search well yeah cuz I mean
you do have the chunks you know like the
embeddings can be stored as vectors
right so as Engineers were like I need a
vector search
database Vector database yeah uh yeah
people love databases this a yeah very
interesting but I feel like the the
first solution is probably not like jump
stretch embedding uh base retrieval
because you
have yeah you need to build like an
embedding model like the quality that
really highly dependent on the quality
embeddings if you have bad embeddings
you retrieve things well also like V
databases can be quite expensive to like
to run and at lency also another thing
is like V databases can like embeddings
can also like obscure um certain
keywords for example if I'm searching
for like a specific Arrow code right
like through embedding you don't really
get the exact Arrow code anymore U so so
it's like so like there certain
challenging with v databases um and
Vector search so I think it's like the
usual like common approach like maybe
just start with something as simple like
keyword retrieval like if you ask like
extract all the keywords from uh from
the user query and find all the document
that with the varies and you say okay
maybe the documents are too long and now
I can't fit into context right that's
when you start with chunking okay now
how do I chunk this like documents into
into into context like they can fit into
the the context L and now was chunking
have like other problems right so for
example like U you have um maybe like
the keyword like the document is about
the company X right but like people say
from now on company X is refers as
company so like it's a rest document you
don't have X appear anywhere so so you
don't get the chunk uh like if you
search for X you don't get the chunk
like below so so you now you might want
you like okay now I need to extract the
keywords from documents and like get add
metadata to every chunk or like get the
title of the document or like some
people like started adding summary to it
or like anthropic has a very very good
article called like contextual retrieval
it's like they ask CH to generate the
key information Matata about like each
document and app
to like like prep that to ex Chun to
have you retrieve uh the right chunk so
so I do think it's like having data
preparations right I to give a really
huge performance boost like I have seen
that's like giving way way better
performance boosts and I focusing on
like which better data bases I should
use you know uh so so what what is a
little bit of like um I'm not saying
that they not useful it's just like uh
in the beginning you you pra wants to
try something simple like with the
biggest performance GES and then you
started moving up like the complexity
level um also like for a lot of
retrieval uh someone told me very
interesting a little bit of like hoty
but he was just like I'm not going to
take any retrieval system seriously if
they don't Benchmark against bm25 so
bm25 is a pretty old school uh like 20
plus year now a retrieval uh it's a lot
simpler uh like termbase retrieval not
not embedding and it's a really really
hard to beat uh retrieval uh systems um
and I think a lot of time we use like if
you start a complex you can like now
combine like both termbase retrival and
a simpler Solutions with like very
databases so you have both the semantic
like on The Ting side but you have both
of the term the exact keyword match like
on the term base so so a lot of things
the hybrid resarch is is very is very
common uh so guess we talk about like PR
engineering add more examples uh rack
right and I think after that maybe have
max out on a lot of those things which
usually take a while people like maybe Z
you might consider F tuning um but I
think like it usually like have a lot of
reservations against F tuning um because
like funing has like a whole host of
like new problems that you need to deal
with yeah like f tuning like first you
need to think of like now you have this
model you fight to and now you need to
think of like how you host it and and
like yeah a lot of models are big like
they building the parameters right like
they they are not I actually read this
this this part in the book you actually
go and the details of the problems with
you know the memory size and and also
like you cover the Alternatives where
you might not need as much memory but
they also bring other tradeoffs so it's
it's tradeoffs within tradeoffs within
tradeoffs right like you yeah you you
you you're you're starting to solve one
problem but you're going to get another
a bunch of others and you'll need to
decide you know is it worth my time
effort
resources yeah yeah so so I definitely
think that um or also like when you fion
model you owns a fion model and now I
mean like you you the question is like
how do you maintain it like anything
think we have this whole world of very
smart people definitely new models like
this capability increase like like
rapidly like so when you have like how
how long can the 5G model like
outperform like those new models were
putting out so you might spend a lot of
energy and effort and to fight to the
model and just a wick maybe like some
like I don't know random Chinese company
you never heard of release is like
extremely fast and like TR model right
so so yeah yeah so so so yeah it's quite
uh challenging so yeah five tun you
think it's the last resort not uh not
the first uh first life
defense yeah but what what what what
I've heard is basically like if I got it
correctly like do a structured approach
like you know start with prompting start
with simple start with you getting
responses that make sense then add more
data you can do this with uh you know
rag you can you can do it with chunking
keyword extraction data preparation
really really makes a big difference
which a lot of people don't think about
and then you you can go to more advanced
things there's a whole host of things
that you could do but my understanding
is you're probably saying like you'll
probably get there over time but
initially these things will keep you
busy and you'll probably be able to
build a pretty good system just with the
with the basics and and a little bit of
engineering and and most importantly
understanding the problem that you
you're trying to solve as opposed to you
know building whatever shiny technology
or or
approach yeah I like in um I like the
approach can a beit different for like
um individual um developers or like
Enterprise like if you look at a whole
organization so so one thing I haven't
seen is just like for especially in the
early day Technologies usually like
enabling enabling new you cases actually
bring more Returns on like this like
incremental Improvement of exting use
cases so like maybe like if U instead of
like spending the effort into like
investing a lot of energy getting eding
out like a little bit of performance
with like fancier like complexi maybe
like using the same the stack you have
had and like opening up like new
applications so um yes so so I say
that's why I feel like a lot of
companies will take a while to get to
the F tuning phase trust isn't just
earned it's demanded whether you're
stter founder navigating your first
audit or season security professional
skill in your governance risk and
compliance program proving your
commitment to security has never been
more critical or more complex that's
where vanta comes in vant can help you
start or scale your security program by
connecting with Auditors and experts to
conduct your audit and set up your
security program quickly plus with
Automation and AI throughout the
platform Fanta gives your time back so
you can focus on building your company
businesses use V to establish trust by
automating compliance needs across over
35 Frameworks like sock 2 and ISO
271 with vanta they centralize security
workflows complete questioners up to
five times faster and proactively manage
vendor risk join over 9,000 global
companies to manage risk and prove
Security in real time
for a limited time my listeners get
$1,000 off vanta atv.com pragmatic that
is
v.com pragmatic for $1,000 off so let's
say that at my company uh we decide to
build an AI solution and let's take
example that it's going to be customer
service
automation what are typical approaches
that I should know about and you know
you do cover some of these things in in
your book as well like some of the kind
of more common steps that I'll need to
take
so customer support uh Solutions so I
would say this like uh the first thing I
would look into is just like what are
the bottlenecks for forther solution
right now so so for example like I have
worked with uh another setup I work with
um this actually has this challenge oh
they had a lot of like customer support
request and they don't know how to
answer and the solution is very
interesting it's just like okay let's
try to drive a lot of question into the
common Channel like public Discord so
that means that like all the users can
so help answer the questions so so like
as much and also like in the future
someone have a question right I can just
like refer to previous uh discussions
instead of like asking so like they try
to make a lot of the discussion customer
support request public um so like
another solution was pretty popular in
like um in 2018 2019 uh is that um you
you do like a routing to the riot
department so so the challenge then is
like realize the bottleneck is in um is
in like triaging so like um first get a
request I don't know which Department to
send it to so I were a bunch of of
startups and it's just like okay let's
try to build a system like to to predict
like is this should just go to like the
finance department I should just go to
like a technical support department you
know like just a SK routing already
reduce like the the frion a lot um and
if you and if you think it's like okay
when we need like a gen to do it uh so
so I think I really recommend um the
framework that Microsoft introduced uh
the call is like crr work run like going
from like a slightly uh um lower stick
to like higher stick um uh deployment so
first of it doesn't a support jackpot
right so so maybe initially you you can
like have a human is a loop so for
example uh you can have like um for
every request um instead of like a human
uh agent writings the response from
scratch you can have like AI suggest
like a few options and like the human
can choose one or like can just like
chew one as a starting point and then
make make make short quick edit and and
send it uh so like once you see it's
like okay um maybe the accept rate is
like getting really high so first all
for this categories of queries maybe
accept is like 90% right so you might
feel more more confident you like rot it
out maybe run it out you maybe a smaller
users or you can run out even like
internal use cases uh and then uh so you
give it more automations but like reduce
the scope of um the scope of like um uh
of deployment and then after you really
happy with it uh you can like run out to
like U more more users so yeah so that
what how would go about uh something
like customer support thought nice
because like my what I was kind of
expecting you might say is like oh you
know like you know just build this like
you know AI framework deploy it see I I
feel that's what a lot of companies are
doing by the way a lot of teams is like
oh gen AI oh let's let's get you know
this model from chat gbt or anthropic
let's try to you know put it there and
let's let's put it out there but I I
really like how
what you're saying sounds like it's not
really like you know what you explained
it's not really specific to gen AI you
can went through like you look at the
business problem look at the problems
you have look at the options which
include not just geni but more
traditional machine learning as you said
classifier and then you look at if you
know these tools help your problem and
then you'll make sure that it actually
solves your problem when you roll it out
don't just blindly roll it out which I
mean all of this sounds to me it's not
really new is it it's it's not like you
could have said the same thing two or
three years ago before gen except we
would have not had those gen tools to
play with yeah uh so so I think actually
before our chat you look up one of those
talks before and you have this talk
about like things that haven't changed
like things that feel very similar about
engineering and I definitely like uh
dealing with a new technology is one of
the things that never change so I feel
like every time there's a new technology
that comes out I can hear like the
collective side of like senior Engineers
everywhere saying like not everything is
a nail like like people just try to get
the technology to work for everything um
so so yeah so so I do things that um a
very common uh challenge I see is that
like people just like jump straight into
it like you just want to use gen for
when they don't need gen so I think this
is a two two different there are two
different headlines so one headline is
like I use J AI right or the other
headlin is i s the problem so if if you
want to focus on the first headlin and
yeah you J AI but if you want to S the
problem then you need to understand like
what what is a problem like yeah like
what are the challenges there what the
roadblocks and remove the road blocks
using the simplest Solutions not the
fanciest one yeah I I feel that there's
a bit of a really strong fear of missing
out across most tech companies that
everyone knows this is such a transform
transformative technology it gives us so
many new capabilities that it will be
important I I think everyone knows that
their company will be using it but now
there's a fear of missing out of oh what
if what if my team doesn't build it what
what if what what if someone else gets
ahead of me and so like a lot of
companies many teams are all building it
and you know trying to just you know
like using a hammer looking for nails
even though they might not need it at
the time uh I mean I'm not sure if this
is a bad thing necessarily because you
know people at least get experience with
it and you know they will need to learn
about it but it's a very interesting
time because it's rare to see usually we
see like you know a new backend
framework come out or or or or like some
something that's limited to domain and
people jump on it but it this is what
the first time I've seen that the whole
whole industry is jumping on it and
everyone is trying to use it and it put
it in whether it works or not I
definitely agree with you on this uh
foro thing I I do think this like
everyone jumping on is actually a pretty
good thing like I feel like the energy
is incredible I've never before seen
like so many smart people focusing on
the same problem it's like incredible
and the progress is amazing um I do
think however like I think is an irony
it's just like the more we want to not
miss out things the more things we will
miss because what I think is feel like
if we try to keep up with news right we
try from jumping from one news to one
piece of news to another we will always
stay at the surface level we never
really to go deep into anything so I
actually don't quite read news um so so
I find like a little bit distracting uh
so I think like I I try to like I feel
like um my my Approach is like okay pick
pick a problems that you care about and
then only care about things just like
help you swn this problem so like if
there's some news coming out and was
like does this help me swn this problem
if it doesn't I can't wait right because
I feel like if it's something important
it will still be important like two two
weeks from now on like a month from now
on like I don't drop everything it's
like okay let's just go and understand
what it is uh like you know so so I feel
like um trying to get a more uh try to
stay with kmer uh yeah
yeah so when you're building an AI
system one of the things that you will
come across is you need to evaluate the
output how well it works does it solve
your
problem why is it difficult to evaluate
AI systems and and what what are common
ways to do
that so evaluation I think is like
billion dollar question or even a
trillion dollar given how much you put
investing now yeah um need to go big and
if it go big better be go really big uh
so um so so I think is challenging
because um the smarter AI becomes uh the
harder it is for us human to evaluate it
so um before right like if AI was like
incoherent um you can pretty tell if the
if the respon is bad it's like okay
doesn't sound good like it's a bad
response but nowadays like it's pretty
coherent right like for example if you
ask a CH like Jared as a summary of a
book um if the summary sounds convincing
you actually not know if it's like a
good summary or not and you might have
to read entire book yourself just to to
evaluate whether it's a good summary um
or or like the the math a lot of time um
I I personally use a to ask a lot of
question because I don't know the answer
and because I don't know the answer I
don't know if the answer is correct
right so so an example is like um a lot
of people can tell if a math solution to
a first grade um questions is correct
but like very few people tell it's like
a fancy like equations like proof is
like correct um so I I remember this
like when a one came out like teren St
his is amazing ma mathematician one I
think it's one of the the the best
mathematicians of our time uh he
actually took time to like evaluate a
one and he says like the experience of
like using a one is similar to
advising a incompetent but not
completely stupid uh okay like a med
complet incompetent B student but just
makes me think is like if we really need
like the brightest mind today to
evaluate AI then we soon should run out
like really really smart people to like
evaluate AI so so I thought was like so
so what could be like the CH what would
be like the next step forward uh so so
before a lot of time we use a whole
human as a ghost standard for AI
performance it's like okay so humans
like started writing out like uh here is
how you should resp want you this and
here's how you should do it and like AI
should try to copy human but now we for
many many tasks like we have ai like
I'll perform like human way way better
so so I think like there several uh so I
thought about like several approach like
to deal with it and I think that's why I
separate the chapter like the so
initially I I I had like one chapter on
evaluation because more I write about it
it was like shoot there's so much and
I've going like two pretty long chapters
on evaluation the first chapter is on
General methodology and the second
chapter is about how to use like
different techniques to like evaluate
the AI system so like so like methology
like one one is that um functional
correctness so it evaluates the output
of application based on how well it
perform as a task so like if you say
that like uh Hey use AI save energy you
can see like how much energy it actually
save or like hey uses AI to to play this
video game you can see how how high is
the score you can actually get um um or
a very common use case for this coding
so I do think this like it's not a
coincidence a coding one of the most
popular use cases because like we
actually know how to evaluate Jed code
like we might not know how to evaluate
Jed like essays and stuff right but you
know how to evaluate code because we've
been testing like code for like for a
long time so so with code you can do
like use functional correctness you to
evaluate first like whether is this code
compile does it run second like does it
J's expected output
um that's what we wanted to do so like
that one approach the second approach is
like a uh using AI to evaluate other AI
so we have been using AI to evaluate or
to automate a lot of applications so can
we also use AI to automate like
evaluations and actually doing pretty
well I think we have is like um um I
think like um um in many many even back
in like 20123 uh Lang Genesis report uh
they saw that the majority of
application they saw already has like
some some sort of like ai ai as a judge
or like LM as a judge and I think it's
like it's growing um and we do things
it's like um it's getting pretty cost
affections and like uh useful but of
course I see a lot of like challenges
around using a just that we can go into
later uh but another approach I thought
very interesting is like one comparative
evaluations um and the reason like um as
humans um it might be hard for us to
give an absolute score on something but
if we can give like two versions of
something we can tell oh weiz this one
better so we have done a lot of studies
showing that like even for um even for
task where where where where where AI is
like outform like doing at a level what
like humans experts like can't really do
we can still tell like detect the
differences so so been like um anything
think this has been a lot been like
guiding um not just evaluations but also
like model development sounds like
there's just no s no simple answer right
like you kind of need to go through all
these options and figure out like in
your case which makes sense for cost for
what you can do can you have a human in
the loop so there's there there's no no
real silver bullet no one thing that you
can just use um yeah uh I I I don't
think there is a simple solution so
that's one thing I'm a little bit
skeptical about evaluation tooling
because a lot of uh a lot of challenge
evaluations um are not because we don't
know how to evaluate but because it's
required discipline and hard work and a
lot of things it's like TS can't really
automate uh so so for example um one
things about evaluation like we we need
to evaluate an application based on what
users want um and and we don't so that
means that we need to like go and talk
to users we need to look at their
interactions because a lot of things
what we think it's like we we want want
to like M evaluate what what matters
right we have to measure what matters so
for example uh I have a several examples
of like how is very counterintuitive
thinking that we're measuring one thing
but user actually care about other
things so so in the beginning for
example like um have a friend who
building it's pretty big application
it's like basically building like to
summarize meetings um and in initially
they were like okay we we we try to get
a we try to measure like correctness
like does the summary cover the content
of this meeting um all like they like
think think about like hey do uh does a
model follows the format because they
think it's like users want like shorter
summary and they agonize over like do we
want like three sentence summaries and
like five sentence summaries and they
try to measure though but actually
eventually what they found out is that
users like don't really care about the
whole content of the meeting people only
want like what is the action item for me
like what you have to do after this
right so so actually yeah it start
changing like so correctness anymore I
mean they still like don't make up
things right but they focus on like get
don't miss out on action item specific
for the person asking for the salary um
yeah so it's like or or like um or
examples like some people um using um
chatbot for uh for um let's so we talk
about a customer support chat Bo so we
want to go back to that example so um a
pretty uh big tax firm uh so it be a
chatbot so you know tax software you can
pretty T which which company it is um so
so like was just like laar a chatbot and
uh to help people with Tas preparations
and the the response is when I very
lukewarm they were like say they were
measuring by like the users how how they
use it and they was like people just
didn't really seem to use it and they
were like why is that uh is that because
it's like not is what hallucinate or
like what is the challenge they CH you
to measure own kind metrix right but in
the end found I just like you didn't use
it because simp because they hate typing
people I don't really like typing and
also like because if you fac with a
domain a domain that you don't really
know like I I use the software because I
don't know lot of things about tax I
don't even know what question to ask
yeah oh so so they didn't know what to
type they didn't understand the domain
you know they went to tax thing because
they wanted to take care of their own
their tax yeah so so so I think my S
started like uh trying to like
understand more like what kind of
questions like people would would ask
and like suggest that in the beginning
and then basically say guide users so
it's got educations like hey here's a
question you should ask and then here's
as the aners keep going so so I think
it's like um a lot of that is um it's
just a lot
of understanding your domain as the
problem domain like go talk to users
looking at the data um I do still think
that looking at data is very very
important I think Greg Brockman has a
great quote about it so you think it's
like manual data inspection is one of
the activities that has a highest ratio
of like value to prish so that means
that's like people don't don't think
highly of like manuala inspection of
data rankling let's give it some intern
to do like let me think with something
fancier like algorithms and stuff but
actually extremely high value because by
looking at data you detect patterns you
understand how the users use a product
um so so I actually like I usually a
very good practice I really highly
recommend to teams it's like don't
forget human evaluations so you use as a
judge uh but as a judge um have a lot of
challenges because like the quality of
the judge depend on the underlying model
and the prompt and is so non
deterministic so so things can change
over time but like if you have some like
Hime evaluations like very consistent
like very clear guideline like every day
go in there look as maybe like 50
samples of like actual interactions or
like if you have more resources go high
is like 500 or thousands right so that
you can like get some kind of like a
picture to how your users like first how
the users are using your product um any
changes in Behavior based on like
Current Events maybe because a because
of reasons like Administration change
maybe people have a lot more questions
about that topic for example or like
help you like correlate with like other
autom automated metrics for example like
if the AI judge score somehow like start
changing compared to the human judge
score maybe just some something you need
to to
investigate yeah so I guess you cannot
like as you said you can't really skip
hard work if you want to get good
results and you can't really pull humans
out of the loop fully at least initially
what are some common mistakes you've
seen um when teams are building AI
applications
um come U yeah but I feel like I don't
want to say in a way that oh everyone is
an idiot um so um yeah um so so one uh I
think we touch on several um so one very
common mistake is like use gen when when
you don't need gen uh so so for there a
startup that came with me with with a
pitch it was like oh I'm going to you
we're going to use JF AI to help people
optimize electricity usage so when I ask
like so people can tell CH the chat the
AI like hey here's our like I I live
here and here are the activities I do
during the days that are very energy
intensive maybe I charging a car or like
doing laundry or something and the AI is
going to tell you like hey you should do
this activity this time and this time so
that you can maximize like minimize the
electricity bill and they were like oh
our reason show that like you can save
you on average 30% of electricity bill
it was like free money why would anyone
not want that um and so I was asking
them was like um what is the what what
is what is this cost saving if I'm just
like manually schedule like the most
intensive one during the off bck hours
uh right they just like you look like
okay just charge the car at like I know
10: p.m. or something you know yeah they
were like um we we we haven't done that
yet but we're going to try it and and
let you know and they never got back to
me and they they abandon the idea later
so so I feel like a lot of those
optimization problems can be Sol like
greedily like maybe even like without J
yeah without J um another spectrum is
that like I see a lot of companies
giving up on gen uh because they think
that gen is not good for their problem
because they have tried it and it
doesn't work and in a lot of a lot of
time I got surprised was like wait a
second I just talked to another company
who just like they use that for the
similar use case and it work really well
and when we look into it it usually
because of like bad product like because
they they don't promise well they don't
understand the users they don't yeah
this is like they don't even know to
evaluate well um so so for example like
I was um working with this like
companies that does um um
basically like um extracting uh resume
information so a person I get a resume
and they try to like map out like where
does a person work before and like
create a summary of that person's life
and and um they have a two steps like
first like from resums uh they try to
extract own the text and then after own
the extracted text they extract the
organizations uh from the extracted text
so by the way the resume is a PDF not
not P text right and and then I asked
them so like okay it work terrible like
the they never like they got like the
organization like wrong about like 50%
of the time and then I was asking them
like uh where the process does this fail
is that in the from the PDF to extracted
text or from the extracted text
organization attraction and they were
like oh we don't know we didn't do that
it was like if you if you can't pinpoint
you can't localize where it fails and
how can you fix it so so a lot of times
it just like seems like common sense but
somehow I don't know this is some
something that's always like puzzle me a
little um or I like uh another is um
another is just like statue complex for
for example like like jump St your
better databases or like a f tuning um
or another common one nowadays is like
when you see a fancy agent framework you
just like let's let's use this framework
you know let's let's try it and I think
that eventually attractions are like
really really cool like like I think
really grateful for many attractions
make my life easier but I do think that
attraction should encode my best
practices and should be heavily tested
but I think we're still in the phase
we're still learning like uh best
practices and also like a lot of
tractions can introduce like unnecessary
uh very very painful books uh so when I
was going through the code bases of a
lot of those Frameworks and I found out
something interesting like a lot of
those Frameworks have some different
prompts can help you get get started
right because it's like it just make you
very easy for you to like to begin um
but then like every single of those
prompts and look like have some type
typos and there just like change so you
have somebody submit a quick PR to like
fix the typos but it's not part the
release anything so if you're using like
this framework using one of the de
prompts and then s the performance like
applications just like change you don't
quite know like why is it changing
because the prom was like Chang under
the feed um so so yeah so like those um
those those are very interesting um like
those are just like patterns they I've
seen but it's interesting because what
what you mentioned it sounds like if I'm
you know collecting these it's like
using this technology when you don't
really need it giving up on it um
without you know just for common sense
reasons you could have just fixed some
easy things uh using a new framework
when it's just not really high quality
or it's it's and you know it does really
have the best practices this kind of all
sounds stuff that we could just replace
gen with you know a new a new technology
or a new a new stack and we'll
probably hear similar things right it's
it's it's it's typically these things
because it it's it's just it's it's
changing all the time there's no best
practices no one really knows how to use
it there's you know whoever tells you
they're the expert they're still just
you know they have a maximum year of
experience with it it's it's it's not
really new is
it yeah I I think I definitely agree
with you I do things that like even
though like Technologies change over
time so like systematic thinking like
systematic uh approaches to problem
usually don't change like yeah if you
want to Sol problems uh you first start
by like breaking down the problems like
seeing where the challenges are and like
go through different solutions you like
do that it seems seem common but I think
like a lot of time um a lot of us get
um foral I think foral get in the way
and was like okay we know it's the right
thing to do but I so feel like I just
need to check this thing out first you
know and you keep doing that like three
times a day so day is gone and you just
like never really get time to sit down
and think really deeply about about what
what that what is that you're trying to
do yeah so I guess we're going to see a
lot of the kind of mistakes that are
with new technology happen plus if
someone you know if some of the
listeners have adopted new technology
you can probably use some of that
approaches I mean you just
localize it for for for Gen Ai and you
know see if you can avoid some of those
yeah speak speaking of picking of new
technology as someone who learning Genai
a software engineer who wants to get
into AI engineering what would your
recommendation be to learn you know
things do change so fast uh you did
mention the importance of of
fundamentals what would you focus
on um
so um I have a lot of thoughts on
learning uh because uh I like learning
learning a lot and I think over time I
just like try just like observe some
patterns and like by the way like the
way learn thing might not be the same as
a way you learning people have different
learning style um but in general I think
it's like um I think of learning has
like two different uh approach one is
like Project based learning and the
other is like structure learning project
based learning is like okay you you
choose a project and you work on it
really like go and try and Sol every
problem in that in that project right
and finish it where structure based
learning is more like when you take a
course or you read a book it's like like
somebody out L out like here's the
things that you you want you to and I
think there's quite a bit of a debate on
like um somebody told me recently that
he um that like a friend a very good
friend and he said like oh he think it's
a problem nowadays with people who want
to become an engineer is that they spend
too much time learning and not enough
time doing uh and he was just like just
forget own the courses forget own the
books just pick a project and just work
on it and I do think this project based
learning is very very valuable but you
think of like here is a set of the
skills and knowledge I want to do right
I want I I need your help to become like
really good at something um Project
based learning can help you hit a lot of
this point but it doesn't always always
have you hit like on the points and it
can get like sometime get the confusions
what so like sometime still need to
complement with structure learning and
another things that's like Project based
learning um that a lot of people like
usually do it follow some tutorials
people like like here someone has a pre
how to do this and um I think tutorials
is really cool and uh I think like I so
personally do it a lot but also notice
that um it's very easy to just like
mindlessly clicking one cell to another
and just run the sell R another and
don't really stop to ask like why is
this being this way like why is this
Library being important like why is this
code written this way what is the bat
size is 16 instead of like 64 like why
is it like exper so so people um it's
very easy to not stop like there's no
like mechanism to force you to stop you
just want to run to the end and see what
they output out and make some changes
like by the best guesses um it's
something funny like when I was like
working on this like open source project
um and um and I was like wanted to do a
market research and like see who is
using this uh this framework so it was a
framework was Ibis and I thought like I
knew that if you need if you want to use
this framework you need to do like
import ibas right
so I went through on the GitHub and I
searched for all the Rost that have the
import IBS and I found lot of Rost that
I went to it it has import ibas but then
it doesn't like the codebase does not
have IAS anywhere else it's not used at
all and was like what what is happening
so I realized a lot of those repos like
copy from a tutorial yeah and that
tutorial use import IBS um and then and
that's by mistake and then like everyone
else so maybe the original developer
like import I Bas and then deleted the
code because I didn't use it anymore um
and then like everyone Co copy just like
this the same thing um so so I feel like
that is something a little bit dangerous
like tutorial based learning is great
but I do think it's very important to be
able to stop and ask question and
sometimes structure learning can help
you like ask the right questions um like
think think think things through um uh
so so yeah so so before starting I would
recommend maybe a mixture uh like yes
choose choose some project you want to
work on it doesn't have it doesn't have
to be like big fancy project like just
just try to like uh pick one um and then
at the same time complement it with like
some structure learning like pick
whatever like um maybe a book or doing a
course with a friends uh read paper um I
think read paper is a bit bit
interesting um because read paper
reading paper is like it's a skill it
can be quite timec consuming and you
need to know like what what you want to
get out of it um but yeah so like um
start a project complement with like
structure learning uh at the same time
there's an exercise that I felt very
very useful at least for me initially is
that like for a week I try to observe
like what I do like try to make note of
like what I do and try to think of like
what percentage of that can be automated
by AI like what what could be done by AI
yeah and then I try to use AI to do
those uh and gave me a lot of ideas on
like on on the use cases like just think
about it what matter to me and may be an
application can SS a problem is just
great
already yeah that's I I think that's an
unconventional way but it's it's a good
way to look at it because because in the
end also it kind of I think it might
help you get ahead of you know this like
Dread of like what would AI do for me
because you realize what happens when
you automate things which actually leads
to my my next question there's a lot of
fear mongering around oh AI will mean
the end of software engineering because
they are AI is very good at coding it's
a lot better than a lot of other areas
what is your take on will as as AI gets
better will it actually you know end
software engineering or it will change
it or it's not going to much change
actually I think it goes back to the
question of like what software
engineering is so maybe you can get an
analogy uh maybe it can help it explain
it better so the writing right so we we
tend to confuse um the most Salient
activity of something as the itself so
for writing writing in the past writing
means a physical act of like putting
some like Words onto on a paper
or and and and back then right like it
was people think of writing as that and
people actually took pride in the
calligraphy like oh have beautiful
handwriting you must be smart you must
be intelligent right but then we had
computers and now writing doesn't refer
to that act anymore writing refers a
process of arranging ideas into a
readable format and I think the same
thing as coding so now people think like
so Eng people think of like it's like
it's a physical act of like putting code
on like I don't know like a vs code or
like VM or whatever software that um
that you use but but that's not what s
engineering is s engineering is about
like serving problems like here's the
problems how do I like come up with
executable programs to Sol this problem
coding itself is just like a physical
act of it and I do things it's like yes
um maybe AI can have automate coding but
I don't think it's going to fully like
automate like problem solving because
you still need to know what problems is
and and only you can understand like
what problems you're facing like well
and and also you know AI has the problem
like coding really or software
engineering really is like yes you need
to solve problems but what I don't think
we say is you need to do it very
precisely the reason the job software
engineer or programmer exists um is is
because it is very hard to be specific
to speak the computer's language because
you know if if you move that if
statement somewhere else or if you
change a variable suddenly you know the
program crashes because now you have a
stack Overflow exception which you of
course understand if you're a software
engineer but if this is just a business
user who says I want to show you know if
uh if you resize the window I want the
button to move
over it's easy to say but then as a
software engineer you you know the edge
cases you know the environment you know
what needed to worry about you need to
worry about system events Etc and then
youd write code for all of those things
and I'm sure we'll get to a point where
the AI will be able to generate some of
that but it might not and and you will
still at some point need someone who
understands you know that code and can
figure out where the Gap is because
English as a language is not as precise
as a programming language you know
programming languages were invented to
be very precise and unambiguous and very
easy you know you can you can go from
assembly code to the programming
language because it's a one-on-one
mapping or and then from English to a
programming language that's very fuzzy
right yeah yeah so I I think that
profession will not go away like for for
users it might work for some kind of
more hobbist use cases of like you you
say something and you get something
roughly that's it and you try multiple
times and it generates something else
and you're happy but for you know a
business or professional use case you
will need those people who will be able
to guarantee that you get exactly what
you want yeah I'm actually really
excited about like a can automate like
part of coding uh because like it's
actually anal software engineer should
do software much more complex so like I
go back to the analogy of writing like
before when I had to do the manual like
copying words onto papers like own the
books back thing go very small like I
think it's like like 5,000 words or
10,000 words considered like big because
like it took a long time for people to
like copying things uh but but now like
we have books like 100 of thousand words
right and I think it just make things a
lot easier and do things like with s
engineering like if you don't have to
manual right Cod it quickly like turn
ideas into like Snippets ex executable
programs I do think enable like us to WR
much much more complex software yeah and
maybe one software engineer will be able
to kind of command a lot more software
debug or or maintain a a lot more
complex system by uh by oneself CU right
now you know there's a reason that you
know for a million lines of code usually
there's like several Engineers it's it's
it's rare to have just one engineer if a
company brought that I'm not talking
about dependencies so that that would be
interesting so what what other use cases
are you excited about for that AI could
bring outside of just
coding
um um let's see I'm doing I think I'm
excited about education um so so I do
things as like AI can help people learn
we want to learn uh a lot faster um so
so I think one thing I realized is that
like nowadays if you know the answers if
you know the questions finding the
answer is actually quite easy like you
can ask like Ai and it's it's usually
give you like pretty a lot of or like at
least it can give you a lot of like
references for you to like go and read
more about it um but then like what's
still hard is like how how you come up
with the right questions and I think
it's like education needs to like focus
on like forcing students like create the
habit of like asking questions and
understanding like so so I do things
this like is help learning to become uh
a lot more affection like people can
learn a lot of things um yeah and I feel
like I I do I do believe that if if we
are can learn better and faster then we
can actually do more things so so I'm
very excited about like what what would
that uh what that would look like um
what other use cases uh I'm excited
about um I'm excited about entertainment
um yeah um I think it's like
um I think it's like some sometime we
only think of like entertainment and
education as separate things but I don't
see why we can't have like games that
help we learn things more like have some
strategy games like teaching go about
negotiations that could be like really
fun uh yeah so um or just something like
more um intellectually stimulating
content you know like movies or shows
don't have to be like about like mes I
people like watch that because it help
them Escape but also I also think like I
kind like J it's like make me think a
little you know like for or like
understand more about like different uh
Fields um so so I do things that now ai
can access us and like creating content
that is both entertaining and and
intellectually stimulating um yeah so I
think it could be like a lot of fun uh
for some simple always just like now
they we have a lot of like mediums
adaptations so you have a book you can
convert it into a movie and sometime you
have a movie you convert it into a game
um or like you have a papers convered to
a podcast so so now if we have some
content AI can help us like convert
adapt different medium that could be
like very very exciting um
um yeah I think it's
like is there a lot of like small
problems um that that I'm so like
interested in um I think it's like I
haven't touch on any ofo Enterprise I
feel like that's where most money is
still uh I do think to say a lot of like
um I think like Enterprise or company
organization structure is going to
change um so so for what does it means
like you think about like a lot of
organization what what what is the job
as a middle middle management it's like
to to like first like trans like upgrad
information from their reports and
transmit it like up uh up to the
executives and all like and this other
way they transporting like transmitting
information like directions from
executive to like lower lay layers but
like information aggregation is actually
like really really something AI can be
like really really well so so I you
think this like companies can be a lot
more uh um more efficient so let's close
up with some rapid questions so I'll
just shoot some questions and you tell
me what Pops to your mind uh what
programming language did you use most
when you built AI applications or did ml
engineering and why Python and
JavaScript you JavaScript as well how
come oh oh yeah definitely I think it's
like a huge part of like uh Building
Products it has to like build demo
quickly um so so I think like that
that's very very handy I'm not very good
like I think I've always been scared of
JavaScript but I'm very grateful like AI
actually helped me like getting started
a lot easier nowadays yeah and which one
is your favorite llm model right now and
why o uh I don't really have a favorite
uh I use it for different things so I
used to use jity out habit um because I
have a bunch of proms that I use already
and I have little things like reu prom
for JM stud using um I use cloth
sometimes for like crib writing uh
because I think it's less sometimes less
cliche um I'm reading on D R1 and who's
not reading about R1 so like just trying
it up I don't think I have like a
favorite I think I did some of the Lama
uh like uh lava uh like which is the
vision uh um version of like Lama before
for like some some kind of interesting
use case like from like uh uh screenshot
to code like just trying to test this
out um having fun with it um but yeah
I'm I'm not emotionally attached to any
of them yeah and what's a neat AI tool
that you've used and that you
like um so I have something that I built
that's really help make good research uh
so so one thing is like when when I saw
a link like a papers um there a lot of
links and and TR to get a so I realized
when I when I read a links I I go
through the same same process like I is
the abstract uh I look up the authors do
little of work um ask questions um I
also check when I was out uh check the
citation so it has a little tools like
just like go and scan so I have a link
just give me all the information on on
yeah like tool to scratch your own
Edge um yes just like I think it's just
a beauty of AI now you you can build
like it's taking you like very small
amount of time like you just build a
tool like just for you like like before
it would take me like weeks but now I
can just like do one of that like I
don't know this is something to be
excited about I I agree with that and
what what are what are one or two books
that you've read and would
recommend um oh I recommend a lot of
books but I feel like it's recommending
books when feel like forcing people to
like do what you enjoy uh so um I like
books that like help me get a news
person perspective um or like get give
me like insight into some topics I don't
know a lot about so so I really like the
book like first of all like complex uh
adaptive systems uh it's a very
interesting book about a system thinking
like how to design um like yeah like
like um how to how to design like social
dynamics so that to get people to work
toward like the goals does you want you
work on it's very interesting book uh
have forc you to think about systems um
I like the book uh selfish Gene um
because uh you understand more like
about Free Will and makes you like
question a little stuff uh but it's the
idea of like you can live on either
through like jeans or through ideas like
there two ways that you can live on it's
like yeah so jeans could need to live on
with your offsprings and like uh
reproductions the other thing is like if
you have ideas and the ideas can also
like replicate like one like Ed memes
like genes and memes um I like the book
uh anti fragile
uh so so so yeah so so the ideas thing
um I think the author is is a very
interesting character uh I I read his
books I actually really like them um um
yeah I I like that book um yeah I think
I think there are a lot of books that I
like no this thank you for the
recommendations so thank you for being
on the podcast I mean AI engineering is
such a new field and it was great to
hear from from yourself who has clearly
gone very Broad and also very deep and
has been in this field even before it
was called AI engineering so thank you
for this thank you so much for letting
me ramble on on the show um yeah I
really appreciate it and um I I think
that I think one one thing for me I
really enjoy from writing or talking is
that I get feedback because somebody was
like oh I um I think I'm I'm less
interested like I agree with you I mean
it's great to here but it can also like
a little bit like not good for the ego
but I really like like maybe a little
push back like okay you didn't think
about this uh you forgot this or I
didn't take into account this one so I
would love to get those feedback uh so
if there anything that you feel like I
miss out on like do let me know I really
appreciate it thank you to chip for this
conversation about AI engineering to get
in touch with chip including to get
feedback on her book you can find her
contact details on her website Linked In
the show notes below I've also found her
book AI engineering to be a broad and
deep overview of this important field
it's a book that focuses on the
fundamentals that are unlikely to change
so if you want to learn these it's a
good book to have in the pragmatic Eng
year we've previously done several Ai
and ml related deep Dives check them out
also linked in the show notes below if
you enjoyed this podcast please do
subscribe on your favorite podcast
platform and on YouTube thanks and see
you in the next one